In the following presentation, you
will learn about archaeologists.
Listen to the presentation and then
answer the questions that follow.
Archaeologists are scientists
who study the objects--
called artifacts--that
people have left behind,
the sites where these are found, and the
landscapes in which the site existed.
These artifacts give us clues about how
people lived their lives at earlier times.
The artifacts may be scattered,
discovered one at a time.
Or they may be together, in a place where
a village or settlement once stood.
All of the information
archaeologists discover
can be compared to the written history
and the oral history we know about.
Sometimes archaeology confirms
the historical record.
But sometimes what archaeologists
find raises new questions
about the things we think we
know about people from the past.
Regardless of what they find,
archaeologists keep very careful records
of the site when a discovery is made,
drawing or photographing artifacts in place
before removing them for further study.
Just how do archaeologists decide where
to look for evidence of the past?
Sometimes studying written and oral history
points them in the right direction.
Other times they study
landforms in a certain region,
looking for caves or hills where
artifacts may be hidden or buried.
And sometimes, the discovery of a
ruin or tomb is a happy accident
the result of digging a well
or building a shopping center!